Follow-up grant for Typechain-Polkadot (#1432)
w3f/Grants-Program: applications/typechain-polkadot-follow-up-2.md

When a smart contract is being written, the front-end developer receives its file representation in the Application Binary Interface (ABI) format. One ABI per each contract, a new ABI for every contract update.

Information about how to interact with a contract (methods names, arguments & returns types, etc.) is included in this ABI file. It is not relatively human-readable, so extracting that information becomes a challenge. We need to have correct type definitions for each contract in TypeScript.

Interaction with blockchain is done with the polkadot.js library, which only has abstract definitions for the contract in use. Thus users' code cannot be typesafe. And Typechain-Polkadot can change it.

This Grant is a follow-up to the previous grants, [first grant](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/typechain-polkadot.md) and [second grant](https://github.com/w3f/Grants-Program/blob/master/applications/typechain-polkadot-follow-up.md).

> In this grant, we aim to integrate event subscription, allow users to create their plugins and expand the tool into more packages so the users can alo use different parts of the application alone if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this grant, we aim to integrate event subscriptions, allow users to create their plugins, and expand the tool into more packages so the users can also use different parts of the application alone if needed.
```

Reviewer: Can you elaborate on the plugin support? To me it's not clear what you mean by that. Maybe you could make a detailed example of a plugin use case that typechain would support after the scope of this grant is delivered.

| 7 | Branding | Make logotype for typechain and better README |

## Current work - Scope of this grant
### Milestone 3 - High-level improvements, flexibility and simplifying of usage

- **Estimated duration:** 8 weeks
- **FTE:** 2.5
- **Costs:** 56,000 USD

| Number | Deliverable | Specification |
| ------ | ----------- | ------------- |
| 0a. | License | MIT | 
| 0b. | Documentation | We will cover new-added features in documentation and usage examples. | 
| 0c. | Testing and Teesting Guide | Core functions will be fully covered by comprehensive unit tests to ensure functionality and robustness. In the guide, we will describe how to run these tests. | 
| 0d. | Docker | We will provide a Dockerfile(s) that can be used to test all the functionality delivered with this milestone. | 
| 0e. | Article | We will publish article that explain how to connect it to the project and describe the types of connection options (directly or via compiler). | 
| 1. | User-defined plugins | We will provide an opportunity for users to make their plugins, for instance, how to use parsed types, adding new fields and so on. | 

> | 2. | Subscribing to events | We will research and subscribe to events the contract emits, which will be handy for developers. |

Reviewer: What library (if any) are you planning to use here? For example, [RxJs Observables](https://rxjs.dev/guide/observable) might be a good fit here.

> | 3. | Typechain-compiler | The tool will be easy for big projects to compile Rust code and generate Typechain definitions. It’ll be helpful for TDD when users can write code and develop everything in one CLI command instead of generating a typechain-code file by file. In plans, we want to make a wrapper for running user scripts (like hardhat run) and also functionality to initialize the environment for typechain usage |

Reviewer: > The tool will be easy for big projects to compile Rust code and generate Typechain definitions.

Does that imply that the current version is not suitable for big projects?
How would M3 make it more suitable, are you planning to improve the performance of the compilation?

> It’ll be helpful for TDD when users can write code and develop everything in one CLI command instead of generating a typechain-code file by file.

Does that mean that typechain will watch for code changes and recompile whenever there is a new change?
I assume so, since you refer to `hardhat run` but please clearify this in the proposal, so there will be no misunderstanding.

Reviewer 2: Typechain-compiler basically in M3 will compile your smart contracts, then creates artifacts directory, where it puts all contract abi and .contract files, then it start typechain on that files. 

Yes, we can use typechain for big projects, but developer will need to move every abi file manually, but with typechain-compiler it will be done automatically

> | 4. | Openbrush integration | We will test typechain on openbrush integration tests to ensure everything is working correctly and is easy to use. |

Reviewer: Just to be clear, the deliverable here are integration tests, right?

Author: yes

Reviewer 2: Yes

> | 4. | Openbrush integration | We will test typechain on openbrush integration tests to ensure everything is working correctly and is easy to use. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 4. | Openbrush integration tests | We will test typechain on openbrush integration tests to ensure everything is working correctly and is easy to use. |
```
